#summary A definition of computing and its systems

====What is Computing?====

Computing is a reproducible execution flow of logical operations. Natural phenomenon what we believe truth is computing, and simulation of its scientific model is also computing. Let intelligence be decision made by human brain. This decision making procedure is computing, and also simulation of human decision making process model is.

Digital computer is the fastest computing device that man has ever made. Sophisticated control of electro-magnetic fields and waves let us construct a transistor that forms a logical switch and builds electronic circuits. Based on these circuits, microprocessor is built where circuits can process a set of high-level instructions. When programmer express  a computing in brain or mental by using a programming language and/or model, compiler translates this program to a machine readable one. Operating system abstracts the heterogenity of microprocessor and I/O devices so as to make users easily express computations they want manipulate or automate. Specifically, OS executes on top of hardware and provides basic functionalities that user programs typically need.


컴퓨팅이란 재현 가능한 논리적 연산의 흐름을 의미한다. 우리가 진리라고 여기는 자연현상도 컴퓨팅이라고 볼 수 있으며, 이를 인간의 사상을 통해 모델링하여 이 모델을 시뮬레이션하는 것도 컴퓨팅이다. 인간의 의사결정 과정을 지능이라고 할때 이 과정을 컴퓨팅이라고 볼 수 있으며, 이를 모델링한 시뮬레이션 또한 컴퓨팅이다.

디지털 컴퓨터는 인류가 만든 가장 빠르고 정확한 컴퓨팅 장치다. 전자기의 정교한 제어를 통해 트렌지스터를 만들고 이를 바탕으로 논리적인 스위치를 구성하여 논리 연산 회로를 구성한다. 이 회로를 바탕으로 상위 수준의 명령어를 처리할 수 있는 구조를 만들면 이는 마이크로 프로세서가 된다. 사용자가 사람의 뇌리에 있는 컴퓨팅을 프로그래밍 언어를 사용해 표현하면 이를 컴파일러를 사용해 해석하고 마이크로 프로세서가 이해할 수 있는 기계어로 변환한다. 이때 마이크로 프로세서와 입출력 장치 등의 다양성을 감추고 사용자가 쉽게 본인이 원하는 컴퓨팅 연산을 표현할 수 있도록 하드웨어 상단에서 운영체제가 동작하며 사용자가 작성한 프로그램에 기본적인 기능을 제공하게 된다.

이 책에서 컴퓨터 시스템의 핵심 구성요소인 마이크로 프로세서, 운영체제, 그리고 컴파일러의 설계와 구현한 과정에 대해서 설명한다. 차세대 응용의 요구사항에 대한 분석을 바탕으로 고안정성, 높은 보완 마이크로 프로세서는 SPARC을 구현한 Leon3 프로세스, 운영체제로는 실시간 운영체제인 RTEMS, 그리고 컴파일러는 LLVM을 기본으로 한다.

이 세가지 시스템을 이해하고 컴퓨터 시스템을 특정 목적을 바탕으로 설계하는 것을 통합설계라고 한다. 이 설계 목적으로는 고성능화, 고안정성, 높은 보안, 실시간성 그리고 저전력화 등이 있다. 통합설계는 문제 해결방법 측면에서는 전역 최적화를 통한 최적해 발견과 같은 것으로 한 공학도의 뇌 속에서 또는 각 부분을 이해한 연구원들이 모여 공동연구를 통해 이뤄진다.
